# Preprocessing
The script `ReorganizeTables.R` was used for the preparation of the metagenomic and metatranscriptomic dataset to ensure that both datasets follow the same structure and format, allowing for combined analyses. The table counttable_metatranscr01_genus_new.csv was obtained from the study of Heck et al. (2023). All further tables used are available in the folder `Data`.
The script `RemoveQuintuplets.R` was used to prepare and clean metagenomic and metatranscriptomic count tables before statistical analyses. The goal was to standardize data formatting, remove low-abundance taxa (singletons to quintuplets), and merge data for analyses.
The script `EnvTable.R` was used to prepare environmental (abiotic) data for subsequent integration with metatranscriptomic and metagenomic data.
The script `PrepareARG.R` was used to prepare the antimicrobial resistance gene (ARG) datasets by grouping, renaming filtering, and merging family-level relative abundance data for further analyses.
The script `RarefactionMG.R` rarefaction curves for the metagenomic dataset were calculated and visualized. The sample with the lowest sequencing depth was identified and all samples were rarefied to this sequencing depth (486 reads) to ensure comparability across the samples.
The script `RarefactionMT.R` rarefaction curves for the metatranscriptomic dataset were calculated and visualized. All samples were rarefied to a sequencing depth of 1,066,681 reads to ensure comparability across the samples. For more detailed information on rarefraction curve calculation please refer to Heck et al. (2023).
